Personal story for RSE Asia (#2381)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: book/website/collaboration/research-infrastructure-roles/research-software-engineering/research-software-engineering-casestudy.md

(cl-infrastructure-rse-casestudy)=
# Research Software Engineering Case Study

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Society of Research Software Engineering](https://society-rse.org/) was founded on the belief that a world which relies on software must recognise the people who develop it. 
Although, originated in the UK, the concept of Research Software Engineering has been widely adopted and specialised roles across academica, industry and other sectors are being recognised across the globe.
```

## Introduction

> In this chapter, we share a case study in the form of an open interview with [Saranjeet Kaur Bhogal](https://saranjeetkaur.github.io/About-Me/) about how the RSE Asia Association was set up. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The [Society of Research Software Engineering](https://society-rse.org/) was founded on the belief that a world which relies on software must recognise the people who develop it. 
Although, originated in the UK, the concept of Research Software Engineering (RSE) has been widely adopted and specialised roles across academica, industry and other sectors are being recognised across the globe (see [list of International RSE communities](https://society-rse.org/international-rse-organisations/)).

In this chapter, we share a case study in the form of an open interview with [Saranjeet Kaur Bhogal](https://saranjeetkaur.github.io/About-Me/) who has been spearheading efforts to establish recognition for RSE skills and roles in India.
Recently, she has set up the RSE Asia Association to connect with different Asian researchers working in this space, and establish pathways for early career researchers to build their skills in RSE in preparation for the RSE careers. 
```

### Why did you start the RSE Asia Association?

The RSE Asia Association was started before there was a lack of representation from the Asian region in the international RSE community. Another reason was the significant timezone difference with the global north. 
Despite the shift of events to online mode due to the pandemic, the timezone difference remains a challenge for us when attending the events. 
Hence, we started RSE Asia to conduct events in a more Asia friendly timezone, and promote the RSE community and profession in Asia.

### How did you get started?

Along with [Jyoti Bhogal](https://jyoti-bhogal.github.io/about-me/)), I started by getting a structured mentorship for building RSE Asia. 

> The Open Life Science programme Cohort-4 (OLS-4) is where we started with our work and built our initial social/public infrastructure like our [website](https://rse-asia.github.io/RSE_Asia/) and [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/RSE_Asia).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Open Life Science](https://openlifesci.org/) programme's Cohort-4 (OLS-4) is where we started scoping out our work and built initial social presence as well as public infrastructure like our [website](https://rse-asia.github.io/RSE_Asia/) and [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/RSE_Asia).
```

> We launched RSE Asia on 14th October 2021 during our participation in OLS-4.

Reviewer: You can add the video here :D

> ### What impact do you think is the RSE Asia Association making on your research/project/community?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What impact do you think is the RSE Asia Association is making in your community?
```

> Within less than a year from our launch, we already have crossed 100 followers on our official [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/RSE_Asia). 
> I also represent RSE Asia as an [observer](https://researchsoftware.org/council.html) at the international council of RSEs. 
> Thus, the impact I see is that RSE Asia is gaining momentum & receiving recognition in the international RSE community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within less than a year from our launch, we already have crossed 100 followers on our official [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/RSE_Asia), with more and more people recognising that for a very long representation of Asian communities was missing in the international RSE network. 
I represent RSE Asia as an [observer](https://researchsoftware.org/council.html) at the international council of RSE.
I was also invited to various RSE events taking place at the international levels, including direct mentorship and support from the Society of RSE.
Thus, the impact I see is that RSE Asia is gaining momentum & receiving recognition in the international RSE community.
```

(cl-infrastructure-rse-casestudy)=
# Research Software Engineering Case Study

## Introduction

The [Society of Research Software Engineering](https://society-rse.org/) was founded on the belief that a world which relies on software must recognise the people who develop it. 	 
  

> Although originated in the UK, the concept of Research Software Engineering (RSE) has been widely adopted and specialised roles across academia, industry and other sectors are being recognised across the globe (see [list of International RSE communities](https://society-rse.org/international-rse-organisations/)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although originating in the UK, the concept of Research Software Engineering (RSE) has been widely adopted and specialised roles across academia, industry and other sectors are being recognised across the globe (see [list of International RSE communities](https://society-rse.org/international-rse-organisations/)).
```

In this chapter, we share a case study in the form of an open interview with [Saranjeet Kaur Bhogal](https://saranjeetkaur.github.io/About-Me/) who has been spearheading efforts to establish recognition for RSE skills and roles in India.	 

Recently, she has set up the RSE Asia Association to connect with different Asian researchers working in this space and establish pathways for early career researchers to build their skills in RSE in preparation for their RSE careers.

Before you dive into the interview, please note that we have a chapter describing the {ref}`Research Software Engineering in Research Infrastructure Roles<cl-infrastructure-rse>` as well as specific recommendation for {ref}`starting a new community<cl-new-community>`. 

### Tell us about your background, and what led you to set up the RSE Asia Association?

My name is [Saranjeet Kaur Bhogal](https://saranjeetkaur.github.io/About-Me/) and I'm a Statistician based in India. 
I am interested to learn about open source and open science and like to remain involved with open science community work. 

> In early 2021, I wrote the first draft of the [R Development Guide](https://github.com/r-devel/rdevguide) through a project funded by the R Foundation. Furthermore, I co-lead the work on the outreach of the R Development Guide at the [Digital Infrastructure Incubator at Code for Science & Society](https://incubator.codeforscience.org/). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In early 2021, I wrote the first draft of the [R Development Guide](https://github.com/r-devel/rdevguide) through a project funded by the [R Foundation](https://www.r-project.org/foundation/). Furthermore, I co-lead the work on the outreach of the R Development Guide at the [Digital Infrastructure Incubator at Code for Science & Society](https://incubator.codeforscience.org/). 
```

I co-founded the [Research Software Engineering (RSE) Asia Association](https://rse-asia.github.io/RSE_Asia/) during my participation in the [Cohort 4 of the Open Life Science programme](https://openlifesci.org/ols-4/projects-participants/), to promote the RSE community and profession in the Asia region. 
I am also participating in the [Pilot Mentorship Programme](https://society-rse.org/events/pilot-mentoring-programme/) of the Society of Research Software Engineering to further build the RSE Asia community.

### What is the main motivation behind starting the RSE Asia Association?

The RSE Asia Association was started because there was a lack of representation from the Asian region in the international RSE community. Another reason was the significant timezone difference with the global north. 
Despite the shift of events to online mode due to the pandemic, the timezone difference remains a challenge for us when attending the events. 
Hence, we started RSE Asia to conduct events in a more Asia friendly timezone, and promote the RSE community and profession in Asia.

### How did you get started?

> Along with [Jyoti Bhogal](https://jyoti-bhogal.github.io/about-me/)), I started by getting a structured mentorship for building RSE Asia. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Along with [Jyoti Bhogal](https://jyoti-bhogal.github.io/about-me/), I started by getting a structured mentorship for building RSE Asia. 
```

The [Open Life Science](https://openlifesci.org/) programme's Cohort-4 (OLS-4) is where we started scoping out our work and built initial social presence as well as public infrastructure like our [website](https://rse-asia.github.io/RSE_Asia/) and [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/RSE_Asia).
We launched RSE Asia on 14th October 2021 during our participation in OLS-4.
The launch invitation and our graduation video from OLS-4 are available on our [website](https://rse-asia.github.io/RSE_Asia/talks.html).

### What impact do you think is the RSE Asia Association is making in your community?

> Within less than a year from our launch, we already have crossed 100 followers on our official [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/RSE_Asia), with more and more people recognising that for a very long representation of Asian communities was missing in the international RSE network. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within less than a year from our launch, we already have followers from around the work on our official [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/RSE_Asia).
Based on personal interactions, it has become evident that representation from Asian communities has been long missing in the international RSE network that RSE Asia Association aims to address. 
```

> Within less than a year from our launch, we already have crossed 100 followers on our official [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/RSE_Asia), with more and more people recognising that for a very long representation of Asian communities was missing in the international RSE network. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Within less than a year from our launch, we already have crossed 100 followers on our official [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/RSE_Asia), with more and more people recognising that representation of Asian communities was missing in the international RSE network. 
```

> I represent RSE Asia as an [observer](https://researchsoftware.org/council.html) at the international council of RSE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I now represent RSE Asia as an observer at the [international council of RSE](https://researchsoftware.org/council.html).
```

I was also invited to various RSE events taking place at the international levels, including direct mentorship and support from the Society of RSE.

> Thus, the impact I see is that RSE Asia is gaining momentum & receiving recognition in the international RSE community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on these interactions and connections, it has become evident that representation from Asian communities had been long missing in the international RSE networks and RSE Asia Association is committed to address that. 
Thus, the impact I see is that RSE Asia is gaining momentum & receiving recognition in the international RSE community.
```

### What tools/software do you use most for the RSE Asia Association digital infrastructure?

Mostly [GitHub organization](https://github.com/rse-asia), our [organization website](https://rse-asia.github.io/RSE_Asia/) is hosted on GitHub.

### Do you have any top tips for other people that might be interested in starting a Research Software Engineering association/community?

If possible try to start with a structured mentoring programme, like the [Open Life Science Programme](https://openlifesci.org/) - they can be immensely helpful in your community-building journey as they empower you with the best of tools and advice from the very start. 

### Do you have any tips on things to avoid?

Try to collaborate more and avoid working solo when you start with community building, it can get too big, too soon - so it is always helpful to have a group of collaborators along.

> ### Are there any other organisations/networks that you're collaborating with? I'm not very familiar, sorry!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Are there any other organisations/networks that you're collaborating with?
```

(cl-infrastructure-rse-casestudy)=

> # Research Software Engineering Case Study

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Research Software Engineering Personal Story
```

I think this chapter and file should be renamed to 'personal stories', instead of case study. RSE set up around the world would look different, hence we can feature multiple personal stories starting from this one.
